.TH dssp 1 "18-apr-2012" "version 2.0.4" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
mrs-blast \- A tool to build mrs files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mrs-blast
\-i input \-d databank \-p program [options] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The mrs-blast application is used to perform a Blast search against
the specified databank. This application tries to implement most of
the options known in the NCBI blastall application.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-i input
The file name of a
.I FastA
formatted file containing one or more query sequences.
.TP
\-d databank
The databank to search against.
.TP
\-p program
The original NCBI blastall application uses this parameter to know
what algorithm to use. \fImrs-blast\fP requires this parameter too,
however, only \fIblastp\fP is allowed as a parameter. Other algorithms
are not implemented yet.
.TP
\-a #threads
The number of threads to use.
.TP
\-l "mrs query"
An MRS query, this is used to search the databank. Each hit is then
passed on to the blast algorithm. E.g. to search only the human sequences
in uniprot you could pass \fI-l 'OS:human'\fP to \fImrs-blast\fP.
.TP
\-M matrix
The matrix file to use, default is BLOSUM62.
.TP
\-e
The minimal e-value for the hits, default is 10.0.
.TP
\-F [T/F]
Flag to use low complexity filtering (T is true, F is false), default is true.
.TP
\-W number
Word size, default is 3.
.TP
\-g [T/F]
Flag to use gapped searches (T is true, F is false), default is true.
.TP
\-G number
Gap open penalty, default is 11.
.TP
\-E number
Gap extension penalty, default is 1.
.TP
\-b number
Number of hits to return, default is 250.
.TP
\-o filename
Redirect output to filename.
.TP
\-v
Add to increase the verbosity of the output.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/local/etc/mrs/mrs-config.xml
This file contains all the configuration details.
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/mrs
The directory containing the parser scripts for mrs.
.SH AUTHOR
Maarten L. Hekkelman (m.hekkelman (at) cmbi.ru.nl)
.SH SEE ALSO
mrs-build(1), mrs-query(1), mrs-config.xml(5)
